The significance of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in the respiratory tract of 9 cystic fibrosis patients have been studied by means of immunoelectrophoretical analysis of patients' sera for the number of precipitins against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and the concentrations of 16 serum proteins.  In addition, the clinical and radiographical status of the lungs have been evaluated using 2 scoring systems.  Precipitins against Pseudomonas aeruginosa were demonstrated in all sera, the maximum number in one serum was 22. The concentrations of 12 of the serum proteins were significantly changed compared with matched control persons.  Notably IgG and IgA were elevated and the "acute phase proteins" were changed, the latter suggesting active tissue damage.  The concentrations of 3 of the acute phase proteins, notably haptoglobin, were correlated to the number of precipitins suggesting that the respiratory tract infection in patients with many precipitins is accompanied by more tissue damage than the infection in patients with few precipitins. The results indicate no protective value of the many precipitins on the tissue of the respiratory tract.
Salivary amylase levels were determined in normal subjects from birth until adult life and in children with conditions sometimes associated with low pancreatic amylase such as malnutrition, coeliac disease and cystic fibrosis.  Mixed saliva was collected under carefully standardised conditions and amylase was measured by the method of Dahlqvist.  There was a wide scatter of values in the 84 normal subjects, but concentrations rose from very low levels at birth to reach adult levels by the age of 6 months to 1 year. Salivary amylase activity rose normally over ten weeks in one premature infant fed milk by gastrostomy.  Thirteen children with coeliac disease and 9 children with cystic fibrosis mostly had normal salivary amylase concentrations.  Six out of 12 malnourished children with jejunal villous atrophy of uncertain aetiology had low levels which rose to normal as recovery began.
This article reports on the possibility of using instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA) of sodium in nail clippings for diagnosing cystic fibrosis (CF) in children and adults, for detecting heterozygotes and for screening in the neonatal period. Nail clippings from 1322 newborns, 22 CF patients (two of them newborns), 52 healthy controls and 22 heterozygotes were analyzed. The discrimination between CF patients and controls was found to be precise for individuals above one year of age and INAA of nail clippings should be accepted as a diagnostic test for CF after this age.  Heterozygotes could not be detected by the method.  During the first five days of life there is a big overlap between the values from normal newborns and those of CF children, which makes the method invaluable for early screening for CF.
Instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA) of nail clippings was used in the development of a diagnostic method for cystic fibrosis (CF).  From CF patients and controls more than three years old, nail clippings were sampled for tests of different errors.  As a result of this study a precise collection routine was outlined. Sodium is easily washed out from nail clippings.  The risk of sodium contamination of the nails seems to be small.  The sodium distribution in the nail is inhomogeneous, and the sodium content varies also from nail to nail in the same person.  There is good evidence that the increased sodium in the nails of CF patients comes from the sweat.  There seems to be a basic "intrinsic" sodium level, which is about the same in the nails of CF patients as in controls. The precision and accuracy of INAA for determining sodium in nails is considered satisfactory.  It is concluded that INAA of the sodium concentration in nail clippings is a suitable method as an aid in the diagnosis of CF if a precise collection routine is used.
The capacity of duodenal juice to hydrolyse casein to trichloroacetic acid-soluble peptides was investigated: in a control group (11 infants and children and 7 adults); in 5 children with pancreatic disease; in 10 children with enterogenic malabsorption (coeliac disease and cow's milk protein intolerance).  The proteolytic activity per ml duodenal juice in fasting condition was as great in healthy infants and children as healthy adults (500-600 mg casein/ml/hour).  There was a good correlation between trypsin content and proteolytic activity of duodenal juice.  In pancreatic insufficiency, the proteolytic activity was extremely low (not measurable in 3 patients) as was the trypsin activity whereas in enterogenic malabsorption, it was within the ranges of the controls.
The influence of chronic Ps. aeruginosa infection on the occurrence of bone marrow-derived lymphocytes (B cells) and thymus-derived lymphocytes (T cells) in peripheral blood have been studied in 2 groups of patients with cystic fibrosis.  One group (9 patients) suffered from chronic Ps. aeruginosa infection in the respiratory tract and produced multiple Ps. aeruginosa precipitins which were demonstrated by means of crossed immunoelectrophoresis.  The other group (9 patients) had never harboured Ps. aeruginosa in the respiratory tract and presented no demonstrable precipitins against this bacteria.  The lymphocytes were examined for the presence of 2 surface markers for B cells: receptor for C3 complement component (EAC rosette-formation) and surface immunoglobulins (immunofluorescent staining), and for the presence of 1 surface marker for T cells: spontaneous binding of sheep red blood cells (E rosette-formation).  The B:T cell ratio was nearly identical in the 2 groups of patients whereas the total numbers of B and T cells were significant higher in patients with chronic Ps. aeruginosa infection.  The number of Ps. aeruginosa precipitins per serum was significantly positively correlated to the total number of T cells, wheras the correlation with the total number of B cells was insignificant.
The occurrence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in the respiratory tract of 70 cystic fibrosis patients and the occurrence of precipitins against Ps. aeruginosa in sera from the same patients have been investigated during one year by means of monthly bacteriological examinations of tracheal secretions and by means of crossed immunoelectrophoresis of a polyvalent Ps. aeruginosa antigen against sera from the patients.  The one-year period prevalence rate of patients harbouring Ps. aeruginosa was 64 per cent.  In newly colonized patients and in intermittently colonized patients non-mucoid strains were predominating, whereas mucoid strains were predominating in chronically colonized patients.  The occurrence of mucoid strains, especially in chronically colonized patients, was associated with a significantly higher number of precipitins against Ps. aeruginosa than the occurrence of non-mucoid strains.  Males chronically colonized with mucoid strains presented a significantly higher number of precipitins than females chronically colonized with mucoid strains and the number of precipitins was correlated with the duration of the chronic colonization with Ps. aeruginosa in males in contrast to females.  The results are in accordance with the hypothesis that mucoid substance could be a virulence factor because it might inhibit the opsonizing effect of the precipitins on the mucoid cells and the complement dependent lysis of the cells hereby favouring mucoid strains at the expense on non-mucoid strains in the respiratory tract of cystic fibrosis patients.
Seventy patients with cystic fibrosis treated as out-patients in a cystic fibrosis clinic have been followed during one year by monthly bacteriological examinations of tracheal secretions.  The daily impression obtained in the laboratory is expressed by the mean point prevalence rate of Pseudomonas aeruginosa: 44 per cent, Staphylococcus aureus: 39 per cent, Haemophilus influenzae: 17 per cent, Diplococcus pneumoniae: 8 per cent, and miscellaneous other bacteria, mainly Enterobacteriaceae: 8 per cent.  The fluctuations of the bacteriology are described by additional epidemiological terms: At one or more examinations during the study (period prevalence rate), 90 per cent of the patients harboured St. aureus, 64 per cent Ps. aeruginosa (mainly mucoid strains), 64 per cent H. influenzae, 37 per cent D. pneumoniae, and 30 per cent miscellaneous other bacteria, mainly Enterobacteriaceae.  This pattern was found in all age groups with minor age-dependent modifications, especially as regards Enterobacteriaceae.  Ps. aeruginosa was predominating as regards chronic colonization which reflects the most difficult therapeutic problems, the period prevalence rate being 39 per cent in contrast to St. aureus: 10 per cent, and H. influenzae: 1 per cent.  St. aureus was predominating as regards new colonization and recolonization which reflect the problems of prevention, the incidence rate of new colonization and recolonization per risk group being 84 per cent, followed by H. influenzae: 62 per cent, Ps. aeruginosa: 43 per cent, and D. pneumoniae: 30 per cent.  The results show that the bacteriological problems in cystic fibrosis are still considerable as regards therapy as well as prevention. Although many species may colonize the respiratory tracts of these patients, the main clinical problems concern Ps. aeruginosa and St. aureus; the reason why is discussed.
A family is presented in which celiac sprue and cystic fibrosis occurred within the same sibship.  A cousin of the index case was also discovered to have celiac sprue.  The genetics and incidence of both conditions is reviewed.  It is estimated that the likelihood of this association occurring on the basis of chance in this family is 1 in 50,000.
A patient exhibited the features of both Kartagener syndrome and cystic fibrosis.  At most, to the authors' knowledge, this represents the third such report of the combination.  Cystic fibrosis should be excluded before a diagnosis of Kartagener syndrome is made.
The prevalence of respiratory allergies and their effects on the course of cystic fibrosis (CF) were studied in 63 patients.  Fifteen patients (24%) had respiratory allergies as defined by history, physical examination, positive allergy skin tests, nasal and peripheral eosinophilia, and reversible airway obstruction.  Serum immunoglobulins on these 15 allergic CF and 22 nonallergic CF patients were elevated when compared with those in normal age-matched controls.  The allergic CF patients had significantly higher IgE levels (mean 598 international units [IU] compared to 281 IU); IgG, IgM, and IgA levels were similar in the two CF groups.  The clinical condition of the allergic CF patients, (Shwachman score) was better than the nonallergic, suggesting some modulating effect of respiratory allergy on the severity of the disease.
An intensive search for blacks with cystic fibrosis (CF) in Washington, DC, during the period 1962 to 1971 disclosed 16 black patients, eight of whom were born in the District of Columbia during this decade.  The calculated incidence of CF is at least one in 17,033 black newborns.  The clinical course and pathological changes in blacks with CF are similar to those in whites.  Genetic considerations point to autosomal recessive inheritance in blacks, which is generally accepted for whites with this disease.
Three of the 4 women in a cystic fibrosis clinic who used a combined form of oral contraceptive developed acute polypoid cervicitis.  In one woman, the polyp recurred on reinstitution of the medication. There was resolution of the polyp in each instance on discontinuation of the drugs.  In 2 of the 3 affected women, there was coincidental deterioration of respiratory status.  Therefore, it is suggested that cystic fibrosis patients who are using oral contraception be observed closely regarding pulmonary and gynecologic status.
The ability to detect abnormalities of lung function in children with asthma and cystic fibrosis by the measurement of closing volume was studied in 205 children.  Flow volume characteristics, routine spirometry, body plethysmography, and arterialized oxygen tensions were studied for comparison with closing volume. Closing volume was less sensitive in detecting disease than were the residual volume to total lung capacity ratio, maximum expiratory flow volume curves, and arterialized blood gases.
Five parents of children with cystic fibrosis developed allergic bronchospasm after inhaling pancreatic extracts sprinkled on their children's food.  There was a positive history of allergy, but no past history of asthma in any of the 5 parents.  Asthma responded to bronchodilators, and use of a face mask during preparation of meals prevented recurrences.  To date, asthma precipitates by inhalation of pancreatic extracts has not been seen in any of the patients with cystic fibrosis.
Airway resistance and lung volume were measured by a modification of the plethysmographic method of Briscoe and DuBois (1) to calculate specific airway resistance (SRaw) on 263 control subjects ranging in age from the newborn to 54 years.  the mean SRaw was lowest in the newborn period and increased rapidly to adult levels during the first years of life.  In each age group, the mean SRaw was lower for females than it was for males.  No control subject had an SRaw greater than 8 sec cm H2O.  A decrease in mean SRaw from 4.2 sec cm H2O for females 5 to 9 years of age to 3.5 sec cm H2O for those over 18 years of age paralleled sexual maturation, but similar changes were not observed in the males.  A direct correlation of SRaw with clinical observations was found in young patients with various degrees of pulmonary involvement because of cystic fibrosis.
Ciliated nasal polyp epithelium from patients with allergic rhinitis and patients with cystic fibrosis was maintained in organ culture for 168 hours.  Explanted epithelium retained its morphologic characteristics and incorporated 35SO4 and 3H into blood group specific glycoproteins that were secreted into the medium throughout the culture period.  Labeled mucous glycoprotein was solubilized by reduction and alkylation, then purified by gel filtration chromatography.  Purified glycoprotein was further separated on diethylaminoethyl (DEAE) cellulose columns into 3 blood group active fractions.  These fractions had similar amino acid compositions but differed in N-acetyl neuraminic acid and fucose content and in relative incorporation of 35SO4 and 3H-glucosamine.  Blood group glycoproteins from polyp epithelium of patients with allergic rhinitis and cystic fibrosis were indistinguishable in many respects.  However, the 35SO4 per 3H ratio of all 3 glycoprotein fractions from patients with cystic fibrosis exceeded that of the corresponding fractions from secretions of patients with allergic rhinitis.
The pressure-volume behavior of the lung was studied in 24 patients with cystic fibrosis.  Isovolume flow-pressure relationships were measured in 7 of these patients, and a modification of the flow-volume test was evaluated for detection of flow reduction in a separate group of 63 patients.  Relative to results in a control group of 31 normal subjects, 13 of the 24 patients had grossly abnormal pressure-volume curves with excessive stiffness of the lung near maximum volume and loss of recoil at lower volume.  Closing volumes in these patients were often high enough to cause significant disturbances in gas exchange and the elevated closing volumes were quantitatively explained by the low values for elastic recoil.  The modified flow-volume test detected mild flow reduction in many patients who otherwise had normal pulmonary function tests. Loss of recoil per se did not account for the low maximum expiratory flows, since "upstream" resistances were high.  However, pressure-flow curves were effort-dependent at high lung volumes even in patients with severe airway obstruction, showing that time constants of emptying varied widely in these patients.  It was concluded that deterioration of lung function in cystic fibrosis involves more than airway obstruction and that the worsening gas trapping is explained by a progressive loss of lung elastic recoil.
Use of bland aerosols, particularly mist tents, in the treatment of lower respiratory disease was reviewed and no convincing evidence of efficacy was found.  This is not surprising because there is evidence that mist tents deposit little water in the lower respiratory tract.  Mist tents may be detrimental, in some cases, because of bacterial contamination and because they can cause bronchospasm.
Plasma arginine esterase activity was measured in 13 young adult patients with cystic fibrosis and in 36 control subjects.  The enzyme was activated by treating the plasma with chloroform and ellagic acid in the manner described by Rao and associates (1).  No difference was found either between the arginine esterase activities of the patients with cystic fibrosis and the control subjects, or between the degrees of activity inhibited by soybean trypsin inhibitor.  Thus, the findings of Rao and associates of a deficiency of arginine esterase activity in the plasma of patients with cystic fibrosis were not confirmed.
In spite of the widespread clinical impression that pulmonary physical therapy, including breathing exercises, is helpful in the pediatric age group, objective demonstration of the value of the various maneuvers is for the most part lacking.  There is evidence that the volume of sputum produced over short periods of time in patients with cystic fibrosis is increased when cough is accompanied by postural drainage and pulmonary physical therapy, but the long-term effect of the various maneuvers on the course of the chronic pulmonary disease remains unknown.
The present study points out the simplicity and ease of using fingernails and toenails to measure electrolyte levels as a test for cystic fibrosis.  Procedures and various effects on the ranges of values for different categories of healthy and diseased subjects are discussed and the limitations of the method are indicated.
An ear-nose-throat survey was carried out on 50 children aged 4 to 10 years with cystic fibrosis.  10% were shown to be transiently deaf, associated with eustachian tube dysfunction.  There were no confirmed cases of secretory otitis media.  10 children (20%) were found to have nasal polyps or gave a history of polypectomy.  Though a high incidence of middle ear problems in children with cystic fibrosis has been reported in the U.S.A., neither deafness nor secretory otitis media was found to be a problem in the group studied.
The hypothesis that mist tent therapy decreases the viscosity of sputum by direct liquefaction of the sputum in the lower respiratory tract was tested in 6 patients with cystic fibrosis (CF).  The first night all patients slept without the mist tent and the first morning sputum was collected for analysis.  The following 2 nights patients were randomly allocated to a tent supplied by either a jet or ultrasonic nebulizer.  The early morning sputum was analysed for volume, viscosity, water content, and DNA content, an index of purulence.  There was no relation between sputum viscosity and DNA content, water content, or volume.  Furthermore, there was no consistent relation between sputum viscosity or volume expectorated and the presence or absence of an 8-hour stay in the tent with either method of water nebulization.  These results therefore suggest that mist therapy does not consistently influence sputum viscosity or volume in patients with CF.  Above a sputum water content of 90%, further increases in water content do not influence viscosity.
Two sisters are described with fatal chronic obstructive lung disease of unknown origin.  The lung condition was clinically and histologically indistinguishable from cystic fibrosis and the salivary glands showed pathological changes expected in cystic fibrosis.  Neither child had abnormal sweat electrolytes, they had no bowel symptoms, and the pancreas was normal at necropsy.
A simple immunochemical technique utilizing single radial immunodiffusion for the demonstration of albumin in human meconium is described.  A comparison of this technique with the more widely used sulphosalicylic acid precipitation method is reported.  We also have attempted to determine the normal levels of albumin in meconium.
The value of detecting albumin in meconium as a screening procedure for cystic fibrosis (CF) has been assessed on 34,228 samples in South Wales and North Staffordshire over a 4-year period; simultaneously, four methods of detecting albumin were evaluated. 12 cases of CF were detected, detection rate being 60%.  The incidence of the disease in the population screened was 1 in 1850, confirmed by clinical and other test procedures.  Cases of CF without impairment of pancreatic function are likely to be missed by screening methods which depend on the presence of albumin in meconium.
Calcium phosphate, which precipitates in submandibular saliva of patients with cystic fibrosis because of elevated calcium concentrations, was shown by electron microscopy to transform, on standing in vitro, from amorphous calcium phosphate globules to stellar clusters of hydroxyapatite crystals.  Amorphous globules appeared to form at regular nucleation points on a fine network of unknown nature.  Hydroxyapatite crystal formation was confirmed by electron diffraction pattern and chemical solubility. Zymogen-granule spherules (inclusion bodies), which are present in greatly increased numbers in cystic fibrosis submandibular saliva, disintegrated on standing from a homogeneous appearance to beaded, hollow spheres.
Paneth cell metaplasia is a variable feature of diverse diseases of the colon and rectum.  Paneth cells are numerous in the atrophic mucosa of chronic ulcerative colitis, in some juvenile polyps, and around colloid (mucinous) carcinomas.  Moderate numbers of Paneth cells are found in cystic fibrosis of the pancreas, ambeic colitis, and in villous adenomas.  Paneth cells are sparse in diverticulitis, in adenomatous polyps, and around nonmucinous carcinomas.  In this study, Paneth cell metaplasia is associated with mucus hypersecretion and mucin deposits.  It is suggested that one function of the Paneth cell is to control gastrointestinal mucin viscosity.
The association of anomasia and hypogonadism has been reported with increasing frequency over the past several years.  This case report of Kallman's Syndrome emphasizes the importance of testing for anomasia in those patients who manifest abnormalities in their sexual development.
The effects of cystic fibrosis on 50 Victorian families with one or more affected children were examined in a study carried out between August 1972 and February 1973.  The social and emotional problems experienced by family members, particularly the patients and mothers, are reported on.  At all ages, socially embarrassing symptoms and awareness of being different create major problems for the patient.  The uncertainty of prognosis and doubts about the prospects of employment are specially relevant for the teenager. It is suggested that the patient be given ample opportunity, from early adolescence onward, to discuss all aspects of his disease, and that more appropriate provision should be made for the total care of adult patients.  Many problems, such as depression, feelings of isolation and the physical demands of constant treatment, which the parents of children with cystic fibrosis experience, are probably similar to those confronting parents of other chronically ill and handicapped children.  But special difficulties stem from the genetic basis of cystic fibrosis and from the knowledge of an eventually fatal outcome.  The roles of professional members of the medical team are touched on, particularly in relation to genetic counseling and the provision of practical and emotional support to parents.  Comments are made on the establishment of lay organisations.  The financial strain associated with obtaining regular medical attention was looked at, and suggestions are made for minimizing the economic problems of certain vulnerable families.
Membrane associated ATPase activities of human red blood cells were examined following the addition of spent fibroblast culture media from normal and cystic fibrosis cell lines.  In comparison to normal and unspent media, the cystic fibrosis media consistently depressed the ATPase activities.
Cultured lymphoid cells of both homozygotes and heterozygotes for cystic fibrosis could be distinguished from those of normals by (1) growth pattern, gross clumping, and (2) a relative increase in dermatan sulfate, with a normal total mucopolysaccharide content. Lines derived from the genetic mucopolysaccharidoses also had these characteristics, but their total mucopolysaccharide content was markedly increased.  These observations support the hypothesis that the cellular disturbance in cystic fibrosis resides in those cellular regions whose functions would be altered by mucopolysaccharide composition.
Elasticity of sputum.  Elasticity of sputum has been determined using the Weissenberg rheogoniometer, by oscillatory testing, over frequencies from 0.01 to 0.8 c/s.  Sputum was from patients with either asthma, chronic bronchitis, cystic fibrosis, or bronchiectasis and, macroscopically, mucoid, mucopurulent or purulent.  As in the viscosity plot over this shear rate range two Zones with a junctional region can be distinguished.  In Zone 1, over the lowest shear rates, elasticity increases slowly, changes little over a "plateau" region and then, in Zone 2, increases sharply.  In contrast to the viscosity plot, the plateau does not show nothing.  By 0.8 c/s some samples show decreasing elasticity. Although variance between samples is wide, there is no level of elasticity characteristic of each disease or of one macroscopic appearance.  Elasticity and viscosity are correlated, most significantly at the lowest shear rates.  Asthmatic and bronchiectatic sputa resemble each other in that this correlation is still significant at higher shear rates, cystic fibrosis and chronic bronchitic sputum in that it is not.  Since in these last two mucous gland hypertrophy is present, it may be that the sputum has a higher mucus component.
Concentrations of immunoglobulins were determined (using Mancini method and WHO standard) in 108 sera taken during long term treatment of 45 children with C.F. from 2 months to 16 years old. They were shown to depend markedly on the clinical state of the children particularly on the presence of pulmonary tract infectious processes.  These infections caused a rise in immunoglobulin concentration with predominance of IgM in C.F. children aged up to 3 yrs, and with predominance of IgG in older children.  Mean titer of isohemagglutinins in children with C.F. was higher than in healthy children.  Low titers of diphtherial and stapholococcal antibodies were found.  In the case of anti diphtheria antibodies, this can be attributed to the fact that these children are not regularly vaccinated owing to their poor clinical condition.  As to the low titer of antistaphylococcal antibodies this is a well known finding in the course of chronic staphylococcal infections of appropriate bacteriological tests in our C.F. children.  Furthermore their lymphocytes showed an increased blastic transformation when stimulated with staphylococcal filtrate.  Transformation of PHA-stimulated lymphocytes was normal. CT1LIEBERMAN J  AM REV RESPIR DIS  116  1047 977
A cross-over trial of pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy has been conducted on 12 children with cystic fibrosis using Pancrex V forte and Nutrizym tablets in equivalent dosage.  No differences were found in the effectiveness of these products as measured by stool volume, number of bowel actions, faecal fat excretion, and urine urea excretion.  Neither product eliminated the steatorrhoea. Though there was no laboratory evidence to support their choice nine patients expressed a preference for Nutrizym at the conclusion of the trial.  This preference was based partly on the smaller number of tablets which are required.
In an attempt to retard deterioration of pulmonary function, a young man with cystic fibrosis underwent broncho-pulmonary lavage of an entire lung.  In spite of theoretical advantages, the lavage produced an acute deterioration in the patient's clinical and physiologic status, from which he had not recovered one month later. We conclude that bronchopulmonary lavage in cystic fibrosis may be hazardous and should be reserved for those cases in which conventional methods of improving tracheobronchial clearance have failed.
The levels of galactosyltransferase have been studied in the sera obtained from 59 normal individuals varying in age from 5 - 19 years, and from 29 cystic fibrosis patients varying in age from 5 - 33 years.  The enzyme level found in children was lower than that in adults.  The levels in the sera of cystic fibrosis patients was found to be about half of that in the normal sera for the corresponding age group.  In those cystic fibrosis patients over 20 years of age, normal levels were found.
The biochemical properties of the erythrocyte membrane have been studied in cystic fibrosis patients and in age-matched controls.  No significant differences could be observed in either the concentration or composition of the principal membrane constituents. Contrary to previous reports, we found normal levels of the Mg2+-dependent and Ca2+ + Mg2+-dependent ATPase activities in CF preparations.  However, a qualitative difference was observed in the Ca2+-dependent ATPase, since the enzyme had relatively greater activity at lower calcium concentrations in the cystic preparations. This effect on the membrane-bound Ca2+-ATPase is unlikely to represent a genetic defect in the enzyme itself but it may be connected with the mechanism of pathogenesis in cystic fibrosis.
The levels and properties of microsomal glycoprotein galactosyltransferase of cultured skin fibroblasts from control and cystic fibrosis patients were investigated using bovine submaxillary gland mucin as the exogenous acceptor.  Although the mean specific activity of this enzyme was higher tin cystic fibrosis fibroblasts, the difference was not significant.  The properties of the enzyme as regards pH optimum, metal ion and Triton X-100 requirement, apparent Km, heat stability and nucleotide/sugar-nucleotide response were similar for control and cystic fibrosis fibroblasts.
Ca2+-ATPase activity, high affinity Ca2+ binding in the presence and absence of ATP and low affinity Ca2+ binding at added CaCl2 concentrations of 1 microM, 100 microM and 10 mM were measured in isolated erythrocyte membranes from cystic fibrosis and control subjects.  No significant difference was detected between the two groups for any of these measurements.
Various aspects of the immune status were examined in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and the following observations were made.  Ten per cent of the CF patients had elevated or reduced serum IgG concentrations and there seems to be a transient low serum IgA concentration in the same number.  Serum IgM concentrations were normal in CF patients.  Normal levels of the three serum immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA and IgM) were detected in the siblings and heterozygotes.  Serum IgE concentrations were elevated in 32% of patients with CF but normal concentrations were detected in heterozygotes and siblings.  Precipitating antibodies to various antigens and allergens were detected in the sputum of most patients with CF, but their sera contained lower or undetectable titres of these antibodies.  The precipitating antibodies in CF sputum to bacteria, to agar, to seminal fluid, to urine and to human serum may be related to a common antigenic determinant of the glycoproteins present in all these fluids.  The total protein concentration in the sputum of CF patients seemed to reflect the extent of lung damage. The third component (C3) of serum complement concentration was normal, or moderately elevated in all CF patients tested.  Serum transferrin concentrations were normal in CF patients but their prealbumin levels were depressed, suggesting marginal undernutrition.  Peripheral blood lymphocyte transformations with PHA and PWM appear to be normal in CF patients.
Glucose intolerance preceding pulmonary disease in a child with cystic fibrosis is described.  After glucose intolerance was controlled with tolbutamide, the pulmonary infection resolved. Early recognition and treatment of "diabetes" in children with cystic fibrosis is emphasized.
Sera from 31 of 146 patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) contained levels of serum alkaline phosphatase (AP) which were elevated by age-related criteria.  Prominent liver isoenzyme bands were present after polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of all 31 abnormal sera. Larger than normal amounts of bone and intestinal AP were not present in these sera.  These findings indicate that liver abnormalities consistently are responsible for elevations of total AP in sera of patients with CF.  Several causes of high liver AP levels in CF patients were identified: chronic hepatic congestion, drug hepatotoxicity, overt biliary cirrhosis, and most commonly subclinical focal biliary cirrhosis.
Six patients having exacerbations of chronic pulmonary infections in association with cystic fibrosis were treated with intramuscular tobramycin 5 mg./kg./day in 3 divided doses.  The eight treatment courses lasted 9 to 30 days.  Mean serum levels were 2.5 microg./ml. at 1 to 3 hours and 0.2 microg./ml. at 7 1/2 to 8 hours after a dose of tobramycin.  The mean tobramycin concentration in sputum was 0.3 microg./ml.  Eighty-two percent of the 66 pathogenic bacterial isolates from sputum were either Pseudomonas sp. (64%) or Staphylococcus aureus (18%).  Ninety-seven percent of Pseudomonas sp. and 83 percent of Staphylococcus aureus were inhibited by 3.1 microg. tobramycin per ml.  No organism that was isolated before therapy was observed to become resistant to tobramycin, although on 3 occasions colonization with new resistant gram-negative bacilli occurred.  In 6 out of 8 courses of therapy patients showed clinical improvement.  Elimination of bacterial pathogens from the sputum was rarely achieved and was not necessary to produce clinical improvement.  Colonization with resistant flora was an uncommon finding.  Tobramycin's side effects were limited to local discomfort at the injection site, nausea and vomiting.
Serum proteins have been studied by means of paper electrophoresis in 88 patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), and correlated with bacteriological lung findings.  An increase of all serum globulin fractions in CF patients was found, whereas albumin and albumin/globulin ratio were decreased.  The changes in all serum protein fractions were significantly greater in patients with constant Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in the lungs than in patients without this constant infection (p < 0.005), whereas patients with intermittent pseudomonas infection did not have more severe changes than patients without pseudomonas infection.  The changes in gamma-globulin and total globulin were significantly greater in patients with frequent Staphylococcus aureus infections than in patients with rare Staphylococcus aureus infections (p < 0.005 and p < 0.05, respectively).  As regards the other serum protein fractions, no significant differences between patients with frequent and rare staphylococcus infections were found.  Judged by simple scoring systems, the lung disease of patients with constant pseudomonas infection was significantly more progressed clinically and radiologically than that of patients without constant pseudomonas infection (p < 0.00005), whereas no significant differences were found between the other patient groups.
The main characteristic of patients with cystic fibrosis is lung involvement; the fatal outcome of the disease is most often due to pulmonary complications.  Since the paper by West et al. (1954) on pulmonary function in cystic fibrosis, the importance of lung function studies in this disorder has been stressed in several publications.  We have studied lung function in a number of children and young adults with cystic fibrosis.  The results have been correlated with clinical, radiological, and bacteriological findings.
An investigation of sweat chloride with chloride electrode Orion 417 in normal persons and in patients with cystic fibrosis.  Sweat chloride values examined with Orion 417 direct-reading skin electrode were collected in a group of 811 normal persons and a group of 91 patients with cystic fibrosis and were evaluated for differences attributable to age and sex.  In the normal group no significant difference was found between the two sexes.  In the normal group the values among newborns are found to be considerably higher than in the rest of childhood.  During the first month of life the values decrease to a steady level, which is maintained from the age of 1 month to 15 years.  After the age of 15 a steady increase takes place.  With data gathered from the normal group we propose the following upper limits of "normal" for the sweat chloride test: 1 month - 15 years: Chloride 40 meq/l.  16 - 25 years: Chloride 55 meq/l.  Upon examination of the Cystic Fibrosis group, the sweat chloride values in all age groups were found to be above the upper limits of normal.  The method is found valuable for large scale screening purposes for Cystic Fibrosis.
Using pH-microelectrodes the excretion of hydrogen-ions and bicarbonate in relation to flow rate was investigated in a single sweat gland of cystic fibrosis children.  The results show decreased excretion of hydrogen-ions and an increased excretion of bicarbonate.  Evidence is presented that due to reduced secretion of hydrogen-ions in the duct both the reabsorption of sodium and the secretion of potassium may be impaired.  Reduced flux of protons across the luminal membrane of epithelial cells is proposed as a general feature of exocrine gland defects.  It is then possible to describe both the cationic transport defect of the sweat gland duct and the anionic bicarbonate-secretory defect in one term.
43 children with cystic fibrosis, of whom 16 had not received pancreatic extracts, were investigated hematologically.  No difference was observed in mean hemoglobin and serum iron levels and bone marrow non hemoglobin iron between patients receiving and those not receiving pancreatic enzymes.  A significant proportion of children in both groups were found to have mild iron deficiency. These findings are in agreement with the view that pancreatic insufficiency does not increase iron absorption.
It is estimated that cystic fibrosis affects approximately one of every 2,000 white children born in the United States, and is now generally regarded as the commonest serious metabolic disorder of white children with the exception of diabetes mellitus.  Its occurrence in children of Afro-Americans is quite rare and exceedingly so in those of Oriental extraction.  Since cystic fibrosis is genetically determined as an autosomal recessive trait, and since the obligate heterozygote parent is entirely asymptomatic, the disease on its first occurrence in a given family can only be suspected by its manifestations in the patient himself.  At present there is no test available for the detection of cystic fibrosis which can be applied as a simple, practical screening test, such as is available for phenylketonuria.  Diagnostic tests are, therefore, used to confirm or refute the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis when suggestive symptoms arise or when a sibling or relative is known to have the disease. CT1PEARSON RDPEDIATR RES13834 979
  2JAKEL HP  BIOL ZENTRALBL98 55 979
This paper describes investigations on the absorption of 3-methoxyphenyl-L-alanine (anisylalanine) in normal subjects, children with cystic fibrosis and in one child with Hartnup disease. Anisylalanine was slowly metabolised mainly to acetyl anisylalanine, and p-methoxyphenyl-pyruvic acid and lactic acids which were excreted.  In normal adult subjects anisylalanine (25 mg/kg body weight) was rapidly absorbed, maximum plasma concentrations being obtained 0.5-1.0 hour after ingestion.  Thereafter the plasma concentration declined exponentially.  In the group of eight children with cystic fibrosis, the maximum plasma concentration was lower than observed in the control group, and was delayed.  A very poor response was observed in an infant with Hartnup disorder.
Admissions to hospital in the Republic of Ireland, in Scotland, and in England and Wales for coeliac disease and cystic fibrosis are compared.  Admissions to hospital in 1972 for coeliac disease in the Republic of Ireland - which does not yet have full returns of hospital admissions - was approximately three times greater than the number expected based upon the rates in England and Wales in 1969-71.  In Scotland the admission rates for coeliac disease were about twice the expected number based upon the English rates.  This contrasted with admissions for cystic fibrosis which were only slightly higher in Ireland and in Scotland than in England and Wales - evidence that the high admission rates for coeliac disease represent a genuinely high rate in the community.  Admission rates for coeliac disease were as high in the East and South of Ireland as in the West.  In Ireland, the potato, and not the wheaten bread, was the staple diet before the great famine of the 1840s.  In nineteenth-century Scotland, too, less wheaten bread was eaten than in England and Wales.  In the past, therefore, coeliac disease would not be as disadvantageous in Ireland, and to a less extent in Scotland, as in England and Wales.
The cytoplasmic metachromasia phenomenon with Toluidine Blue 0 in cultured skin fibroblasts was studied in 12 parents of children with cystic fibrosis and in 12 controls.  Positive findings were recorded in 10 of the CF parents and in one of the controls.  The average culture time required for development of maximum metachromasia in positive cases was six weeks.  The possible significance of the ametachromatic CF patients in relation to the suggested genetic heterogeneity of cystic fibrosis is discussed.
Forty-six deciduous teeth from 17 children with cystic fibrosis who had a recorded history of tetracycline therapy were sectioned vertically and horizontally.  Teeth in three representative staining categories (mild, moderate, and severe) were photographed under visible and ultraviolet illumination to determine the extent of tetracycline incorporation into tooth enamel and dentin. Tetracycline incorporation into enamel was minimal or nonexistent, whereas tetracycline incorporation into dentin was always observed. The severity of general surface discoloration was directly related to the proximity of the tetracycline incorporation to the dentinoenamel junction.  This was dependent on dosage, duration, and period of initiation of tetracycline therapy as it related to odontogenesis.  Critical periods to avoid tetracycline therapy and thereby to minimize potential tooth discoloration were determined.
Intracisternal granules (Palade, 1956) or inclusion bodies occurring within the cisternae of the rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum have been observed not only in normal conditions, but also in some experimental conditions.  In this paper, such intracisternal inclusion bodies were induced or found in a variety of animals following chemical administrations, artificial hibernation and cold exposure, and also with cystic fibrosis.  These inclusion bodies are tentatively classified into 6 types based upon their morphological aspects.  The formation, fate and significance of these bodies are also discussed.
Over the last 10 years, pyocin typing has been a useful tool for the epidemiological fingerprinting of Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  The widely used "scrape-and-streak" method of Gillies and Govan, although simple to perform, has not been sensitive enough in differentiation of strains.  Use of additional indicator strains might correct this deficiency.  The "growth-in-broth" method of typing has shown promise; because it is easily automated, it may become the method of choice when very sensitive results are required.  The value of pyocin typing appears to be well established in the study of nosocomial infections; however, in some situations it may give misleading results.  Further studies are required for demonstration of the relative value and relationships of serological, pyocin, and bacteriophage typing.
Study of the humoral antibody response of patients with cystic fibrosis to the heat-stable O (and possibly K) antigens of Pseudomonas aeruginosa revealed that these antibodies in significant titers do not lead to eradication of the microorganism from the respiratory tract.  In three out of six patients, antibodies directed against the strains isolated from both sputum and the lungs at autopsy were present in elevated titers.  The antibody response to P. aeruginosa is strikingly affected by the condition of the host and differs in patients with cystic fibrosis or with one or another kind of malignancy.
Various techniques have been utilized for measurement of antibodies against Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  In general, the results of such measurements tend to parallel each other, but the principal functional antibodies against Pseudomonas appear to be opsonins of the IgG and IgM immunoglobulin classes.  These antibodies are potentiated by the complement system, activated either through the "classical" or "alternate" pathways.  Susceptibility to fatal infection with Pseudomonas is associated with antibody deficiency, but this defect is usually correlated with other data regarding the state of the host, such as underlying disease, immunosuppressive therapy, and functional leukopenia.  Additional information is needed on the relative protective role of IgG and IgM antibodies, the affinity of such antibodies for viable bacteria, and the role of antibodies against nonlipopolysaccharide antigens, such as protein components of the cell wall and Pseudomonas exotoxins.
A heptavalent lipopolysaccharide vaccine against Pseudomonas has been developed.  Clinical trials revealed a decreased incidence of sepsis and mortality due to Pseudomonas in vaccinated patients with burns.  If vaccinated, certain groups of immunosuppressed patients with cancer may also have a decreased incidence of death associated with Pseudomonas.  Trials of parenteral vaccination in patients with cystic fibrosis show little benefit.  Adverse reactions to this vaccine are frequent and often limit the dose given.
Suspensions of Proteus vulgaris were rapidly agglutinated by serum from cystic fibrosis patients.  Serum from obligate heterozygotes exhibited a mean agglutination time that was significantly less than that observed for 128 controls.  The agglutinating property was observed to be transmitted through several generations and through both maternal and paternal branches of the pedigrees.  Qualitative differences were noted, with CF sera inducing the formation of clumps that were two- to 10-fold larger than those observed in heterozygotes.  The serum factor responsible for P. vulgaris agglutination was heat sensitive, destroyed by pronase, and neutralized by anti-human whole serum.  The CF serum retained agglutinating activity following preincubation with anti-human IgG, IgA, B1E, and B1A/B1C.
A strain of Staphylococcus aureus (no. FAR4) has been isolated from a patient at frequent intervals over 18 months.  This strain has previously been shown to lose resistance to several antibodies (Lacey et al., 1973); during the last 6 months further changes have occurred in it in vivo.  Lincomycin resistance appeared after the patient had been treated with clindamycin.  This was due to mutation to constitutive resistance to both lincomycin and erythromycin at a locus adjacent to that determining "inducible" resistance to erythromycin.  Both loci are probably carried by an extrachromosomal element.  Three types of variation in the PF plasmid were observed. Alteration in production of penicillinase from macroconstitutive to microconstitutive, was not associated with any detectable change in plasmid size.  This change gave the cell an advantage in vitro, because it was associated with a faster growth rate and probably also in vivo, because the microconstitutive variants were isolated in increasing numbers after flucloxacillin therapy had ceased. Complete loss of determinants for penicillinase production and for resistance to cadmium ions from the PF plasmid was associated with a decrease in plasmid size of about 4 x 10 6 daltons.  This change was also associated with increased growth rate in vitro.  Loss of resistance to fusidic acid from the PF plasmid was associated with a decrease in plasmid size of about 1 x 10 6 daltons.
A method suitable for the study of regional lung function in children is described.  The method is simple to perform, takes only 2 min, and provides pictorial and numerical information on regional ventilation and perfusion and a scaling factor measured after rebreathing to account for regional variation in lung size and shielding.  Although the availability of a computer system such as the one described in the text is essential for precise and rapid numerical evaluation, nuclear medicine laboratories that lack this facility but have a gamma camera could use this method to obtain scintigraphic information alone.
Fecal fat and nitrogen excretion were determined in 20 patients, 12 to 17 years of age, with cystic fibrosis (CF); all had pancreatic deficiency.  Current clinical and nutritional status and growth achievement in relation to fecal nutrient loss, age at diagnosis, and adequacy of treatment were evaluated.  Steatorrhea and azotorrhea were present to a variable extent (at times massive) in all patients studied, but bore little relation to existing intestinal symptoms, state of nutrition, growth achieved, or age at diagnosis.  Many of the patients with better growth, nutrition, and prognostic scores had been diagnosed relatively late in life and presumably had not received adequate or optimal treatment.  Addition of pancreatic supplements resulted in significant, but not dramatic decreases in fecal losses of fat and nitrogen.  It was concluded that despite pancreatic deficiency most older patients with CF need little dietary restriction, although treatment should be individualized.  Growth failure and state of nutrition seem to be correlated more closely with the pulmonary state than with pancreatic deficiency.  For ultimate prognosis, natural variation in the severity of lung involvement is at least as important as early diagnosis and adequate or optimal treatment.
Pancreatic glucagon and insulin were determined in 10 children with cystic fibrosis (C.F.) and in a control group following stimulation by an arginine infusion.  In controls the infusion of arginine induced a prompt threefold elevation in plasma pancreatic glucagon and about a sixfold increase in plasma immunoreactive insulin.  In patients with C.F. the average response of both hormones was considerably less, and the base-line concentrations for glucagon were lower.  The data support the hypothesis that in C.F. both alpha- and beta-cell function are affected as a result of the underlying process.
The efficiency of delivery of an aerosol to 22 children with cystic fibrosis, aged 8 months to 17 years, was investigated with the use a standard ultrasonic nebulizer.  The study was designed to simulate clinical conditions as closely as possible.  Retention of the aerosol was monitored with a scintillation camera interfaced to a small digital computer.  The children also had ventilation studies with xenon-133, which allowed comparison of the distribution of aerosol with regional ventilation.  The aerosol was visualized within the lungs of all 22 patients.  Between 0.8 and 6.5 per cent of the initial activity was deposited in the lungs, representing an average of 0.27 ml. per therapy session or 0.0131 ml. per kilogram of body weight.  There was a positive correlation (r = 0.89; p < 0.01) between increasing age and greater pulmonary deposition of the aerosol.  There was decreased aerosol entry to regions which were poorly ventilated.  The efficiency of aerosol deposition is variable in children with cystic fibrosis, depending primarily on the age of the patient, whereas its distribution within their lungs is related to regional variations in the severity of the pulmonary disease.
Infants with cystic fibrosis occasionally may present with a symptom complex of anemia, hypoproteinemia, and edema.  Case reports of seven infants between the ages of 1 to 4 months who developed these abnormalities indicate that in several instances the children's condition was misdiagnosed as milk-sensitivity or milk-allergy. Furthermore, their case histories verify that their hypoalbuminemia and anemia is nutritional and is corrected when a readily absorbed diet with pancreatic-enzyme supplement is given.  A retrospective review of feeding histories of 100 infants with cystic fibrosis, as well as these case reports, indicate that affected children who are breast-fed or fed with soy-based formulas are more likely to develop the syndrome.
A 3-day-old infant, meconium stained at birth, presented with respiratory distress.  Hypoplastic left heart syndrome was diagnosed clinically and documented at autopsy.  Unsuspected cystic fibrosis was demonstrated by the histologic presence of severe focal biliary cirrhosis with spreading fibrosis in the liver; minimal lesions in the pancreas and intestines were compatible with a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis.  The abundant hepatic fibrosis is unusual in an infant of this age indicating its in utero origin.  This case is also unusual because of the fortuitous association of cystic fibrosis and a congenital cardiac malformation.
Alterations in the pulmonary vascular bed were reviewed in the autopsy material from 35 patients with cystic fibrosis of the pancreas and cor pulmonale.  Hypertrophy of the media or intimal proliferation of small muscular arteries and arterioles was noted in eight patients; intimal proliferation of the larger caliber arteries was seen in seven patients.  The unexpected change, however, was the presence of interstitial hyaline material in the media of the pulmonary artery or its major branches in one-third of the specimens.  The elastic fibers were distorted, but not disrupted, and the finding was unrelated to the presence or severity of other vascular changes.  Intimal deposits of the same material were also present in seven of the patients with intimal proliferation in major pulmonary arteries.  Identical medial lesions were found in the pulmonary arteries of seven of 35 children with pulmonary hypertension and in seven patients with other disorders.  Similar lesions in the media of the aorta were found in each group of patients.  The material was not Schiff-reactive, but had the histochemical characteristics of a connective tissue acid mucopolysaccharide.
Previous studies on cystic fibrosis (C.F.) have shown increased mucopolysaccharide synthesis in C.F. cells.  The uptake of 35S-heparin sulphonate into purified lymphocytes was examined after 3 days' culture in medium 199 supplemented with 20% autochthonous  plasma.  Fourteen C.F. homozygotes, seven siblings, and nine parents all showed significantly greater uptake (p < 0.001) of 35S-heparin than cultures from twenty-three normal controls.  There was partial overlap in heparin-uptake values between C.F. patients and their families.  This procedure thus differentiates C.F. families from the normal population, but does not differentiate C.F. homozygotes from heterozygotes.  It is hoped that either variations in culture methods or a combination of this procedure with other measurements of C.F., such as ciliary dyskinesis or cellular metachromasia, will permit unequivocal identification of C.F. carriers.
Assessment of intelligence by the "draw-a-man" test and school reports has shown that, despite severe early malnutrition in children who had neonatal resection of ileum, the frequency of mental retardation is no higher than in the normal population.  The scores in patients with cystic fibrosis were also similar to the control group.
Large molecules which consistently stimulate hypersecretion in individual mucus-secretory sells in an animal system (the marine invertebrate Sipunculus) have been found in human serum and urine. This activity is heat-evoked in serum, heat-labile in urine. Heat-stable and heat-evoked factors were also found respectively in saliva and tears.  The serum and urine factors withstood freeze-thawing.  Activity of both factors was destroyed by pronase, and activity of the urine factor was destroyed by trypsin.  After incubation with alphaamylase the factor in urine induced production of a very aberrant type of secretion.
The prevention of fetal malformations and abnormalities has long been the hope of obstetricians, paediatricians, and geneticists, but since the cause of most human malformations and of spontaneous gene and chromosome mutations is unknown, this must remain a dream for the present.  However, with the introduction of mid-trimester amniocentesis it is now possible to detect some abnormalities early enough for selective abortion of abnormal fetuses, though this should be considered a temporary expedient only.  The abnormalities which are amenable to this approach are the chromosome aberrations such as Down's syndrome, the neural-tube malformations including spina bifida cystica, and some recessively inherited and X-linked metabolic disorders.
Presumptive evidence indicates that the substance responsible for the pathophysiologic conditions of cystic fibrosis (CF) is a complement component, C3a, also known as anaphylatoxin.  The known biochemical and physiological properties of C3a, together with the behavior of this purified substance when associated with IgG in our tracheal bioassay, compare favorably with those of molecular species which  we have separated from sera and cell cultures of CF homozygotes and heterozygotes.  Sera from normal healthy subjects, previously inactive by bioassay for ciliary dyskinesia factor (CDF), were converted to a CDF positive state by incubation with epsilon-amino-caproic-acid (EACA).  EACA is a known inhibitor of the carboxypeptidase-B-like anaphylatoxin inactivator, and is the method of choice for accumulating anaphylatoxins in normal blood. Incubation of EACA-treated normal sera and two fresh CDF-positive CF sera with carboxypeptidase-B produced reversion in all instances to a CDF negative, normal state.  It is proposed that anaphylatoxin inactivator, a carboxypeptidase-B-like enzyme, is defective or deficientin cystic fibrosis and that this deficiency is the primary gene defect.
Ascorbic acid, acting on its own, is found to exert a bacteriostatic action in vitro on 16 strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa tested. This action, attributable to the oxidation of ascorbic acid, is dependent on individual strains and the inoculum size.  In combination with sulphamethoxazole, trimethoprim, Septrin, ampicillin, erythromycin, chloramphenicol or colistin sulphate, ascorbic acid acts synergistically on Pseudomonas aeruginosa in vitro.  Experiments in mice with erythromycin-ascorbic acid combination show that the curvative dose 50 of ascorbic acid acting alone is 11.22 milligrammes per kilogram body weight.  This was significantly lowered (P =< 0.001) to 6.91 mg/kg if administered in combination with erythromycin (10 mg/kg).  In human patients with cystic fibrosis, by the combined administration of ascorbic acid sulphamethoxazole and trimethoprim (Bactrim, Roche) the pseudomonas infection could be controlled, as the viable number of organisms significantly diminished during the therapy.
A tool to assess psychosocial adjustment of school-age children with cystic fibrosis was developed using three instruments: a standardized open-ended parent interview, a self-administered teacher questionnaire, and a self-administered parent demographic data form.  The three instruments enabled the pediatric nurse practitioner to make a clinical assessment of the child's psychosocial adjustment.  This assessment was then checked for validity by means of a social worker interview.  Implications for further research are discussed.
Malabsorption of bile acids occurs in cystic fibrosis but not in celiac disease and is correlated with fecal excretion.  Bile acid malabsorption may occur secondary to exocrine pancreatic deficiency.
Methods for the rapid semiquantitative analyses of trypsin and chymotrypsin in faeces samples have been developed.  The faecal sample is shaken with pH 8.2 buffer and solutions containing enzyme substrate, buffer and indicator are added.  The sample is incubated at 37 degrees C for a period dependent on the amount of faecal material present and the colour noted.  A change in colour from violet to yellow (trypsin) or green to rose (chymotrypsin) indicates the presence of the enzyme.  A screening trial using these tests is being carried out at St. Helen's Maternity Hospital in Auckland.
Diarrhea can be defined as excess loss of water and electrolytes in feces, but what is an excess?  To the physician, fecal losses may be excessive when they cause the patient to be ill; to a parent a stool pattern that differs from that of a neighbor's infant or even a single watery stool may be too much.  New knowledge of normal gut function and the pathologic processes that may afflict the child's alimentary tract has improved one capability to diagnose and manage certain specific diseases that cause diarrhea.  Although of great interest to academicians, many of these diseases are extraordinarily rare and in most practices there is a substantial and perplexing pool of poopers in whom no specific disease can be found. Fortunately, patients in this latter group are rarely seriously ill. This article attempts to help the practitioner understand, diagnose and treat children with specific diseases known to cause chronic diarrhea.  We will speculate also on the mechanisms and management of idiopathic chronic diarrhea.
The retrograde perfusion assay of Magos for the sodium reabsorption inhibitory effect in sweat and mixed saliva from patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) was modified by (1) using the second parotid gland of the rat as a control, (2) carefully controlling the quantity of saliva perfused into the rat parotid gland so that the ratio of milliliters perfused to gram dry gland weight fell between 1.8 and 2.8, and (3) reporting the inhibitory effect as percentage of inhibition of the rate of sodium reabsorption (RNa) in the perfused gland calculated from the difference between the RNa's in the two glands.  Using this modified assay we were able to confirm that significant differences exist in the percentage of inhibition of RNa caused by CF and normal mixed saliva (47.0 plus or minus 24.8 and 18.0 plus or minus 8.3, mean plus or minus SD).  In addition, similar significant differences in the percentage of inhibition of RNa by submandibular gland secretions (39.7 plus or minus 13.5 and 16.0 plus or minus 11.8), sublingual gland secretions (39.5 plus or minus 6.0 and 19.7 plus or minus 14.3), and submucosal gland secretions (34.0 plus or minus 11.7 and 21.7 plus or minus 12.7) between CF and normal subjects were observed.  However, parotid gland secretions from CF subjects showed no increased inhibitory effect (12.5 plus or minus 7.9 and 12.5 plus or minus 6.6).  These findings demonstrate that the sodium reabsorption inhibitory effect is produced by the secretions from some but not all salivary glands of patients with CF.
No differences were found in the methylation of total nucleic acids, total RNA, DNA, tRNA, or rRNA from lymphocytes or fibroblasts obtained from normal subjects, obligate heterozygotes, or individuals with cystic fibrosis.  Similar results were obtained using four methods for isolation of the nucleic acids.  The reasons for the failure of two laboratories to discern the reported variations in methylation of RNA in the normal, carrier, or cystic fibrosis state may be obscure differences in culture conditions or conditions of extraction.
A calcium-precipitable protein (CaPP), previously shown to cause turbidity of submaxilliary saliva (SMS) in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), was purified from normal and CF-SMS by (NH4)2SO4 precipitation, gel filtration, and preparative polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.  This protein has a molecular weight of 12,000.  It contains large numbers of serine, glycine, and glutamic acid residues, 0.85% phosphorus as phosphate monoester, and small amounts of carbohydrate.  Precipitation (aggregation) of CaPP occurs at basic pH values in the presence of ionic calcium and is enhanced by increasing calcium concentration, CaPP concentration, or pH. Aggregated CaPP binds calcium in molar quantities equal to the number of phosphate prosthetic groups.  Alkaline phosphatase removes all phosphate from CaPP and eliminates calcium-induced precipitation.  Studies of CaPP from CF saliva have demonstrated no electrophoretic or compositional differences from normal CaPP. Higher than normal pH values or elevated CaPP concentrations are not present in SMS of patients with CF and do not contribute to the formation of turbid SMS.  Aggregation and precipitation of CaPP in saliva of patients with CF seems to be induced primarily by elevated levels of calcium in saliva.  This precipitation may be entirely, or in part, responsible for focal obstruction of submaxillary gland ducts in patients with CF.  However, little or no CaPP is secreted in the lower gastrointestinal or tracheobronchial tracts. Therefore, CaPP does not play a more general role in the obstructive processes which characterize CF.
ATPase activity and monovalent cation transport were examined in erythrocytes (RBC) of subjects with cystic fibrosis (CF).  The RBC membrane (Ca2+)ATPase activity of homozygous patients and obligate heterozygotes was indistinguishable from that of normal control subjects.  This was true similarly for total, ouabain-sensitive, and ouabain-insensitive (Na+-K+)ATPase.  Total, ouabain-sensitive, and ouabain-insensitive 24Na+ transport were normal in CF cells. Ouabain-induced Na+ accumulation was similar in CF and normal RBC. Measurements of K+ transport in CF RBC were, likewise, normal.  We conclude that intrinsic ATPase and monovalent transport functions are normal in CF RBC.  We were unable to confirm several abnormalities in these cells reported previously.  The CF RBC is not helpful in defining a transport abnormality in that entity.  These studies document normal intrinsic transport function in RBC of patients with CF.  There have been reports of an abnormal serum factor in patients with CF.  This factor might be involved in the production of a transport defect in CF.  Further studies are indicated to determine whether CF plasma contains a factor capable of altering membrane transport functions of normal RBC.
Arginine esterase activity in chloroform-ellagic acid-treated plasma from 11 patients with cystic fibrosis(CF) and 12 age-matched control subjects has been resolved into its component fractions by ion exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex and electrofocusing on polyacrylamide gels.  The activity can be resolved into two fractions by chromatography, one of which is inhibited by soybean trypsin inhibitor (STI) and the other of which is not inhibited by STI.  In plasma of CF patients, the fraction of activity inhibited by STI is reduced to approximately 30% of the corresponding fraction in control plasma.  In contrast, the fraction of activity resistant to inhibition by STI did not show any significant quantitative differences between control and CF plasma samples.  Analysis of plasma samples by electrofocusing on 5% polyacrylamide gels in the range of pH 5.0-8.0 and subsequent staining for arginine esterase activity showed qualitative differences between control and CF plasma samples.  Six activity bands could be detected in control samples, whereas five bands were detected in CF samples.  Eight samples had one type of band missing, two had another type of band missing, and one had yet another type of band missing.  All of these bands were restricted to a narrow pH zone in the center of the gel. These data are consistent with and extend our earlier reports of differences in arginine esterase activity between plasma samples of CF patients and control subjects.  The demonstration of the absence of a single band of arginine esterase activity is consistent with the absence of a specific arginine esterase isoenzyme in patients with CF.  The deficiency of arginine esterase in patients with cystic fibrosis may account for the presence of "factors" in saliva, plasma, and fibroblasts of these patients and consequently for the clinical manifestations of the disease.
A comprehensive study of tRNA and 18 S and 28 S rRNA methylation in human fibroblasts is presented.  Cells from normal volunteers and patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) were examined during exponential growth by incubation with L-(methyl-14C)methionine and (3H)uridine. The ratio of 14C to 3H counts per minute in isolated RNA serves as a measure of the extent of methylation and was found to be similar in normal and CF fibroblasts for tRNA, 18 S rRNA, and 28 S rRNA. Hydrolyzed samples of (14C)-methyl-labeled RNA species were analyzed by two dimensional chromatography and autoradiography.  The methylated base and nucleoside compositions of tRNA and rRNA agree well with data for HeLa cells and other eurkaryote cells such as those from yeast, mouse, and chicken.  RNA methylation patterns in CF fibroblasts were qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those observed in normal cells for 4 S, 18 S, and 28 S RNA.  There is no evidence that RNA species from patients with cystic fibrosis are deficient in any methylated components.  Methylation of RNA by tissue-cultured cells from cystic fibrosis is qualitatively and quantitatively normal and will not prove to be a useful marker for identification of carriers of cystic fibrosis.
To assess small airway disease in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with minimal pulmonary involvement, maximal expiratory flow volume (MEFV) curves were obtained while the patients were breathing first air and then an 80% helium-20% oxygen gas mixture.  Fifteen CF patients and 24 controls were studied.  Flow rates at 50% and 25% vital capacity (VC) were calculated from the air and helium-mixture MEFV curves and were compared to give flow ratios at these lung volumes.  At 50% VC, the helium/air flow ratios were similar in CF patients and normal subjects.  At 25% VC, the flow ratio was significantly lower (p <  0.05) in the CF patients.  The air and helium MEFV curves were superimposed and the point where the curves crossed (point of identical flow, PIF) was determined and expressed in % VC.  For the CF patients, the mean PIF was 18% and for the controls, 5% (p < .001).  Nine of the 15 CF patients had PIF values greater than 2 standard deviations (SD) from the normal mean.  None of the following tests were abnormal in more than three patients: FEV1/FVC, MMEF, RV/TLC, Vmax 50% TLC (TLC/sec), and Vmax 25% VC (TLC/sec). Arterial oxygen tensions were below 86 mm Hg in four patients. Closing volumes by the 100% helium bolus technique were normal in all patients.  Determination of the PIF appears to be a simple, noninvasive, and sensitive test for the detection of early small airway involvement.
Intellectual performance, sensory motor abilities and social adaptation were studied in 41 subjects (2 to 21 years of age) who had severe malnutrition in infancy.  A control group consisted of 41 siblings.  The mean IQ of 31 parents ws 108 (S.D. plus or minus 11.3).  Socioeconomic deprivation was not present.  The results of the Merrill-Palmer test for the malnourished group and the controls revealed significant differences in favor of the controls.  No differences were found in the older population for whom the WISC and WAIS were used.  The Lincoln-Oseretsky test of motor development and the Vineland scale of social maturity showed no significant differences.  These results are consistent with the hypothesis that malnutrition in infancy can affect intellectual development in the first five years of life.  Beyond this age, given adequate socioeconomic support, no significant differences were observed.
The diagnosis, management and prognosis of 17 infants with cystic fibrosis  (CF) and severe respiratory disease were reviewed for the period 1968 to 1972.  The clinical course of these infants was characterized by a bronchiolitis-like syndrome with failure to thrive and malnutrition.  Arterial blood gases demonstrated marked hypoxemia (mean PaO2, 36.5 mm Hg).  Tracheal cultures showed a predominance of gram-negative microorganisms with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli predominating.  Corticosteroids were used in all patients.  Despite vigorous therapy including antibiotics there was a 60% mortality. A delay in the diagnosis of CF from the onset if respiratory symptoms with a mean of six weeks was considered an important factor affecting survival.  This data supports the need for developing a reliable screen test for CF at birth.
Liver-spleen scans on 254 children were reviewed retrospectively with regard to accuracy and yield of examination.  The scan predicted abnormality correctly 95% of the time and normality correctly 86% of the time.  Pitfalls in interpretation include the nonspecificity of abnormalities present on the scan, confusion of extrinsic with intrinsic defects, and normal anatomical variations with pathology.  The technetium-99m-sulfur colloid scan was found to be most helpful in diagnosing splenic abnormalities, in working up abdominal masses, and in evaluating tumor patients with a baseline scan.  It was found least useful in patients with fever of unknown origin, abdominal pain, diffuse liver disease, and most inflammatory conditions.  Liver abscesses were not found in febrile, otherwise healthy children.  The iodine-131-rose bengal liver scan was found to be useful to differentiate potentially curable lesions (e.g., choledochal cysts) from those not surgically treatable.
Amylase isoenzyme patterns were evaluated in serum, urine, and duodenal fluid from 19 patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and normal subjects.  Two thirds of the CF patients with absent pancreatic enzymes lacked a serum pancreatic isoamylase band, while the remainder had a markedly diminished pancreatic band when compared to the salivary isoamylase.  In normal sera the pancreatic band is equal to or greater than the salivary band.  In all patients with absent enzymes the diagnosis of abnormal pancreatic function could have been made by evaluation of serum isoamylase patterns thereby avoiding duodenal intubation or collection of 72-hour stools for proteolytic enzyme activities.  The patients with normal pancreatic enzyme activities had normal serum zymograms.  No CF patient had a low total serum amylase concentration.  Total duodenal fluid amylase levels may be misleading in the evaluation of pancreatic function since the amylase may be of salivary origin.  The advantages of this isoamylase method include (1) simplicity and noninvasiveness, requiring only a small blood sample; (2) specificity for pancreatic function; and (3) independence of pancreatic enzyme medication.
Gastric mucosal biopsies from eight new untreated patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and two normal subjects were studied by quantitative techniques of electron microscopy (EM) to determine whether presecreted gastric mucus was more compact (viscid) than normal.  Analysis of variance techniques show no differences between means of all groups studied.  These observations suggest that mucus may not be viscid prior to secretion.  Electron microscopy of gastric mucus does not appear to be of diagnostic value in CF.
Gentamicin is a broad-spectrum, bactericidal aminoglycoside antibiotic in its tenth year of use in the U.K.  League tables of antibiotics, ranked by disc sensitivity tests against urinary tract pathogens and Staph. aureus confirm its remarkable effectiveness in 1973.  Bacteriodes sp. and some streptococci are the only major omissions from its spectrum.  MIC of sensitive strains is usually less than or equal to 2 microg/ml although Pseudomonas may require greater than or equal to 4 microg/ml.  The therapeutic range aimed for is 2-12 microg/ml in serum and peak levels are measured 1 hr after intramuscular and 20 min after intravenous injection.  Most workers regard a level of 12 microg/ml as potentially toxic and try to avoid exceeding it.
Twenty-five children aged 8 months to 17 years were studied to determine the usefulness of computer-assisted ventilation-perfusion (V-P) scanning in analysis of regional pulmonary function in cystic fibrosis.  Ventilation and perfusion scintiphotographs were compared with the patients' radiographs.  Regional fractional exchanges of air and relative regional V-P ratios were obtained.  Whole-lung air-exchange was significantly correlated with standard pulmonary function tests and radiograph scores.  Ventilation-perfusion ratio gradients were reversed in pats with predominantly upper zone disease, and regional V-P ratios were uneven in distribution. Quantitative assessment of regional ventilation and perfusion is a useful technique for assessing severity of pulmonary disease in children with cystic fibrosis.
The endoscopic pancreaticographic findings in 46 proved cases of pancreatitis are analyzed.  Pathologic ductograms were demonstrated in approximately 60%.  Significant information was obtained in many cases, allowing both proper diagnosis of the primary disease process and complications thereof.  Because of the latter, the procedure has proved to be quite helpful in isolating those patients who could benefit from surgery.
Albumin in meconium was quantitated by means of a single radial immunodiffusion technique, which is described in detail.  The method shows good precision and accuracy for this material, when certain conditions associated with collection, preparation, and analysis are observed.  The method can discriminate between healthy newborns and newborns with cystic fibrosis.
Tobramycin treatment of chronic pulmonary infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in 13 children with cystic fibrosis was evaluated.  Initially the patients received the recommended dose of 125 mg/m2/24 hours; the dose was then increased to 250 mg/m2/24 hours (approximately 10 mg/kg/24 hours).  This higher dosage was administered intramuscularly to 9 patients.  Eight of these received additional therapy with an aerosol containing tobramycin. With this therapy it was possible to eradicate Ps. aeruginosa from the respiratory tract in 5 of the patients.  After discontinuing therapy Ps. aeruginosa re-occurred in all patients within one month. All patients showed a clinical improvement in relation to therapy. No toxic or allergic side effects were observed.
Thirty-five patients with cystic fibrosis (aged 11 months to 13.5 years) have been investigated with regard to respiratory symptoms, respiratory tract pathogens, serum immunoglobulins and serum precipitins.  Haemophilus influenzae was the commonest pathogen being supplanted in advanced disease by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  The patients who had no respiratory infection had levels of IgG significantly lower than normal children of comparable ages.  In children with severe respiratory infection the immunoglobulins were raised and precipitins to the predominant respiratory organism were present.  These findings differ from the prevalent view that patients with cystic fibrosis have a normal response to infection and that the common infecting organism is Staphylococcus aureus.
To compare the in vitro susceptibility of mucoid and nonmucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa to gentamicin, 144 isolates of both mucoid and nonmucoid P aeruginosa were cultured from throat swab and sputum specimens from 29 patients with diagnosed cystic fibrosis. Mucoid forms of P aeruginosa from throat swab cultures were all susceptible to gentamicin, whereas only 85.5% of the mucoid strains from sputum cultures were susceptible.  Nonmucoid strains from throat swab and sputum cultures were 85.1% and 77.8% susceptible, respectively.  Since the differences in susceptibility between the four groups of organisms were not significant (P < 0.05), it was concluded that these data show no real differences in susceptibility to gentamicin between the mucoid and nonmucoid strains.
The pulmonary macrophages collected with bronchial mucus from patients with cystic fibrosis and other chronic lung diseases were investigated histochemically for acid phosphatase, beta-glucuronidase and beta-glucosaminidase activity, and also for mucopolysaccharide content.  In macrophages from patients with cystic fibrosis decreased beta-glucuronidase activity was observed, together with large cytoplasmic vacuoles suggesting storage of partially digested material.  It thus seems very likely that apart from the increased synthesis of mucopolysaccharides described in cystic fibrosis by several authors, the degradation of mucosubstances produced can be impaired.
HL-A frequencies of 28 patients with cystic fibrosis and of 240 unrelated controls were compared.  No statistically significant difference of HL-A frequencies could be observed for both groups.  A slightly increased HL-A 2 frequency is considered a chance phenomenon.  In accordance with a previously demonstrated lacking association of the ABH blood group substances no correlation with certain HL-A antigens was demonstrable.
